
Procedural programming is a programming paradigm that is based on the concept of procedures or routines, also known as
subroutines or functions. In procedural programming, a program is organized into one or
more procedures that are executed
sequentially. Each procedure contains a series of instructions that are executed in order, typically manipulating data
and performing specific tasks.

Key characteristics of procedural programming include:

Procedure/Function:

Programs are organized into procedures or functions, which are self-contained units of code that perform a specific task.
Procedures can take input parameters, perform operations, and return results.
Top-Down Design:

The program structure is designed from the top level down to the details.
The main program calls various procedures to accomplish tasks, and these procedures may call other procedures.
Data:

Data is often organized into structures or records.
Procedures operate on data by passing it as parameters.
Sequential Execution:

The program executes instructions sequentially, one after another.
Modularity:

The use of procedures promotes modularity, making it easier to understand, maintain, and modify the code.
Reusability:

Procedures can be reused in different parts of the program or in other programs.
Variables:

Variables are used to store and manipulate data within procedures.
Here's a simple example in a procedural programming language like C:

c
Copy code
#include <stdio.h>

// Function to add two numbers
int add(int a, int b) {
    return a + b;
}

// Function to subtract two numbers
int subtract(int a, int b) {
    return a - b;
}

In this example, add and subtract are procedures that perform specific operations, and the main function calls these procedures to achieve a desired result.

While procedural programming is still widely used, especially in languages like C, it has some limitations when it comes to managing complexity in large and complex software systems. Object-oriented programming (OOP) and other paradigms have been developed to address some of these limitations by providing additional organizational and structuring mechanisms.